---
layout: post
title: 2022 FRC Robot
description: NRG 948
image: assets/images/2022bot1.jpg
model: assets/models/2022frcbot.glb
---

This is my FIRST Robotics Competition Robot from the 2022 season.

The claw system uses a combination of flex and Mecanum wheels to guide game pieces into their slots. The claw rotates between two positions: down for acquiring, up for shooting. Early on, this design showed problems acquiring while strafing because the game pieces escaped the housing. We added direct side panels and a center bar resolved that issue.

The first version of the climber's hooks (in the image above) were overengineered, using pistons to lock and unlock them on the climbing bars. I first designed a replacement which was simpler with just two moving parts, but realized there was an even simpler mechanism. This final design uses constant force springs to pull these passive hooks straight. When climbing, the hooks first pass under the bar and lock on when on top as the spring returns them to the straight position. Unfortunately, the base climber design was flawed as the pistons were unreliable in lifting the robot off the ground to begin with.

This was the first year we switched to a swerve drive from a tank drive. Tank drive has sets of wheels on each side of the robot which can turn by rotating in opposite directions. Meanwhile, swerve drive is capable of strafing, with each of four wheels mounted on the corners of the base having independent control. This allows for much greater flexibility and faster scoring rotations if driven well. The only real downside (apart from the cost) is being less robust but the added maneuverability easily makes the tradeoff worth it.